---
layout: post
title:  "Brain Dump: Areas of growth from 2020-2030"
date:   2020-06-20 12:07:29 -0400
categories: investing
---

{:toc}

# Prompts for thinking

* What’s available from a premium perspective that can be adjusted for a larger market?
  * And vice versa? (premium equivalents of free services)
* What are the new developments that will enable new capabilities?
  * 5G
  * More powerful edge processors
  * More advances in biotech
  * Better connectivity for NBU users
* [Bundling/unbundling](https://hbr.org/2014/07/marc-andreessen-and-jim-barksdale-on-how-to-make-money)
  * What will be bundled 
  * What will be unbundled
* Geopolitical trends
  * China vs US
  * The rise of Asia
* Demographic shifts 
  * Aging population in many first world countries
  * Demographic dividend in third world countries
* What are some things that can’t keep becoming more (unsustainably) expensive
  * US healthcare
  * US university education
  * Childcare

***

# Some Random Thoughts

## More willingness by consumers to pay for services

Technology adoption comes in waves. 
Initially things have to be free (or cheap) to overcome people's skepticism to adopt, but as the value proposition grows, people will be more willing to pay for differentiated services.

This has played out previously in television, as well as print media, and will happen as well for the internet.


### What kind of infrastructure will be important?
* Payments
* Subscription infrastructure (shopify or stripe for subscriptions)
* Portability of connections
* Authentication
* Syncing across various devices. Storage as a service for all devices. Single/unified API for developers

### More individual creators going direct to consumer
* Substack for writers
* Patreon for artists
* Teachers making educational content, online classes, etc---Private version of groups, chat, etc

*** 
# "No-code"

## UI-based, RPA

### Enterprise side
Smarter tools that can replicate what business developers from Accenture or Wipro can do.
* Current no code products 
  * Airtable - manipulating data
  * Intercom - customer interaction/support
  * Integration automation (zapier, etc) - replacing glue code typically done by infosys etc
* Enterprise versions of these (Thoughtspot, etc)
  * Cloud platforms
  * MSFT
* Fast copier and acquirer
  * Salesforce
  * MSFST

### Voice assistants/chat

We will likely see voice assistants and chat as the trigger for a workflow built using RPA-like tools.



***
# Ambient Computing

* AR/VR will find it's killer app.
* Cars will be equipped with smart assistants.
* More progress will be made for maintaining "state" across different surfaces. (You'll be able to pick up right where you left off across device transitions)

Google, MSFT, and Apple are in the pole position here.

***
# Gaming, Virtual Worlds, and Digital Goods

[Matthew Ball](https://www.matthewball.vc/video-gaming) has done a great job covering the gaming world recently.

I don't have much to add, some additional thoughts:
* Gaming will be bigger than the movie/TV industry in 5-10 years.
* Gaming will become even more mainstream, more casual, and more social. (Discord, Fortnite are just the start)
* Digital/virtual currencies will become a lot bigger, we will see more exchangeability between digital currencies and physical ones.
* We will start to see advertising in games/virtual worlds.
* We will increasingly see elements of the physical world reflected in the virtual world. (AR/VR)

***
# Consumerization of enterprise products
This trend will continue and has a long runaway.

***
# Healthcare

Also a growing trend, esp with Covid and rise of biotech.


***
# Structuring of unstructured data and automated addition of metadata 

This is still relatively unexplored and has a lot of low hanging fruit IMO.
Computer vision, OCR, and other ML building blocks are enabling new use cases.

We are seeing some initial specialized use cases like Expensify, etc. and other enterprise use cases for smarter tooling and "cognitive" automation.

***
# More control and choice over monetization of personal information

Instead of the big platforms as the main party making money off your information, new services will emerge that will help you monetize your personal information.

There will be new ways for consumers to be compensated for sharing information with various degrees of identifiability: aggregated, pseudo-anonymized, identifiable.

 